http://gsi.berkeley.edu/media/sample-recommendation-letter.pdf

[University letterhead]
[sender’s name]
[sender’s departmental address
—
if not printed on letterhead]
[sender’s departmental phone number, if available]
[sender’s departmental fax number
—
if not printed on letterhead]
[sender’s institutional email address]
[today’s date]
[recipient’s name]
[recipient’s institutional address]
To Whom it May Concern:
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
It is my pleasure to recommend Farooq Ahmed Zuberi for admission to Google AI Residency. [I am an Assistant Professor at University of Freiburg, Freiburg Im Breisgau, Germany and holding the position of substitute professor of computer science and leading the research group for Machine Learning in University of Freiburg.] I came to know Farooq when I was his Graduate Student Lecturer for Machine Learning Course. The course comprised of []. Apart of the course I also supervised Farooq in [Master's Project Audi Autonomous Driving Cup 2015]. I was also the first academic supervisor and reviwer of Master Thesis.

I supervised Farooq during his Master degree student in University of Freiburg. During this period, he also took machine learning course and master project and final thesis under my supervision.

[ I would rank her in the top 2% of students that I have taught in the past five years in respect of her writing ability and research skills.]


-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[Skill]
skill in ML and interest to learn more and eagerr to learn and quick to learn
takes part in seminars and interested in t


[Couple of Lines for Research]
1. Overall, Jane is highly intelligent and has good analytical skills. Her project on ethical practices in ancient Greece demonstrated her ability to come a detailed understanding of the ethical practices of another, very different, culture, and to analyze the consequences of those practices for contemporary ethical theories. She gave a particularly interesting discussion of the difficult practice of infanticide, and showed both sensitivity and detachment when discussingits ethical consequences. Her overall intelligence is also reflected in her grades for the course, which were by far the best in the class.

[Couple of Lines for Work Ethic and Engineering]
During that summer, Mr. Smith demonstrated the ability to work independently with great creativity and enthusiasm.  He also put in many long hours.  He worked as hard as my best graduate student.  I teamed Mr. Smith with another student to work on a project involving testing of patients having shoulder pathology.  The project included recruiting patients, testing patients using biomechanical instrumentation, and data analysis.  Mr. Smith excelled ineachone of these areas.  His interpersonal skills were excFarooq t.  He “schmoozed” the clinical staff to facilitate recruitment of patients.  He tested the patients professionally.  Sometimes this testing required long days dueto the extensive setup and calibration of equipment each morning before the clinic began operation.  He stayed after the testing sessions to back up data, clean up the area, and start data processing programs to runovernight.  He was usually the first one in the lab in the morning and the last to leave in the evening. 
[Soft skills]
Jane has excellent communication skills. Her written work is both clear andconcise, as well as interesting to read. She demonstrated her oral articulateness in the discussion sections that were an integral part of the course. Each discussion section focused on a particular ethical dilemma. Studentswere required analyze morally problematic situations, and to develop and argue for their own ethical viewswith regard to the issue in question. Jane was highly proficient in applying the course material in analyzing theproblem situations. She always explained her views very concisely and gave supporting arguments that were both clear and persuasive. Jane also demonstrated good teamwork skills in group assignments.

2. 
During that project, Pema demonstrated the ability to work independently with creativity and enthusiasm as well as effectively lead a team of 3 Project Fellows for sample selection and data collection techniques. She trained the team on all aspects of NEO-Five Factor Inventory (FFI) as well as CASQ. She was also able to collect the CASQ data of more than 50% of the students a year later.

	

Her communication skills put both the subject as well as the interviewer at ease thus facilitating an unbiased and effective data collection. Pema has good clarity on the various data analysis statistical packages especially MATLAB and ANOVA which immensely helped us in doing a comparative study through various methods. She was quick to learn R and use it effectively for analysis. She would be invariably the first person be at the school well prepared for the day.

The Project Fellows in the project always had praises for Pema. They always mentioned her patience and perseverance in clarifying their doubts on the standardized data collection and analysis techniques. Pema had doubled her efforts on data collection when he found that one of the project fellows was down with fever and cold. She had not let this effect the Project Schedule.

Pema is very creative and patient with the kids. The long questionnaire would be too tedious for the kids so he would often make origami for them as they worked on the questionnaire.

Her hard work and perseverance paid off when her paper, ‘Learned helplessness and achievements in pre-adolescent males and females’ was selected for publication in an International Journal.            

3. 



The other student working with Mr. Smith commented favorably about working with Mr. Smith.  He said the Mr. Smith got along well with everyone, pulled his own weight on the project, and had the ability to compromise with otherteammembers.  Oneincident illustrates this point.  There is a staff member in an adjoining lab that is a rather prickly person who has had many problems with students in the past.  Mr. Smith had to interact with this staffperson in order to get his project done.  Mr. Smith was able to find a common interest with this staff person, which was folk dancing, and build a rapport based on this mutual interest.  At the end of the summer the staffperson noted what a pleasure it was to work with Mr. Smith. Mr. Smith also volunteered to help others in the lab.  One of the other students was doing a project on knee biomechanics, and it required harvesting knees from the University’s morgue.  

Mr. Smith volunteered to help harvest the knees on several occasions.  I asked the graduate student in charge of that project about Mr. Smith, and he commented that Mr. Smith has excFarooq t dissection skills. 

I was especially taken by Mr. Smith’s creative mind and independent work ethic.  He continued to read the literature independently and generate interesting hypotheses.  We met about every other week, and at several meetings hepresented papers and information that was new to me.  By the end of the summer he was introducing me to scientific papers that were directly relevant to his study that I hadn’t seen before.  Mr. Smith also showed remarkableproblem solving ability.  Our instrumentation system began having problems midway through his experiment.  Mr. Smith spent a full weekend troubleshooting the system.  He discovered therewas a loose wire in the A/D connection box. 
4.


Mr. Sendjasni would be a great asset to your fellowship program. His enthusiasm and his remarkable ability to learn, his generosity, energy, high standards and dedication will make him an excFarooq t researcher.

Mr. Sendjasni is a [Quality #1 to highlight about person]. [Example of how person displays that quality].

Mr. Sendjasni is a [Quality #2 to highlight about Person]. [Example of how person displays that quality].

-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
[End]
1. At a personal level, Janeisa well disciplined, industrious student with a pleasant personality. She went well beyond the course requirements in the quantity and quality of her project, putting in a lot of extra research and attending office hoursevery week. Throughout the course, Jane demonstrated great perseverance and initiative. Not only was she interested in and motivated to learn the material, but she also put great work into assimilating it to her ownexperience and developing her own ideas about each ethical topic that we discussed.Jane is unquestionably an exceptional candidate for graduate study in Ethics. Jane’s work in Philosophy 111 suggests that she would greatly benefit from the opportunities for intellectual development provided by a sustained period of graduate study. She has proven herself to have the perseverance, initiative, and intellectual creativity necessary to complete an advanced graduate degree. I would therefore highly recommend Jane Doe. If her performance in my class is a good indication of how she would perform as a graduate student, she would be an extremely positive asset to your program.
2. 

Ms Tenzin Pema is clearly the best student that I have worked with in the past few years. I strongly recommend her for a PhD programme from [University Name]. She would be an asset to any university he joins.

3. 
Mr. Smith is going to be first author on a manuscript that he is preparing for publication.  He followed through on his promise to write the manuscript during his M2 year.  Moreover, he handled the manuscript revisions and saw themanuscript through to publication.  This illustrates his high level of motivation. In summary, Mr. Smith is clearly the best student I have worked with in the last 10 years.  I would very much like him match to our residencyprogram.  Even though I hope he stays here, I think he would be an outstanding asset to your program.  I give him my highest recommendation. 

4.

I believe that Mr. Sendjasni will be an excFarooq t fit for your followship program. He has been nothing short of an exemplary student. If you have any further questions, feel free to contact me and I'll be happy to answer any questions you have. 







[/End]
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------

If I can be of any further assistance, or provide you with any further information, please do not hesitate to contact me.
Yours sincerely,




Sincerely,
[Signature]
[Your Name]
[Your Title] 
 

	

ABC DEF
Professor
Department of Social Psychology
University Name
City
Email ID:
Contact No: 

Sincerely, 
Richard Hughes, Ph.D. 
Assistant Professor 

